{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The bus ground to a halt at the stone shelter beside the harbor road, and Lena stepped down into the salt air of Sainte-Barbe. It hit her like a hand across the face\'97the brine, the diesel from the fishing boats, the faint sweetness of rotting kelp along the tideline. She had forgotten none of it.\
\
The village had changed in ways both small and devastating. The bakery where she had bought almond pastries as a child was now a mobile phone shop. The old customs house had been painted a pale, institutional green. A banner hung across the square advertising a jazz festival she could not imagine anyone here attending.\
\
But the harbor was the same. The stone breakwater curved out into the grey water like a crooked arm, and the lighthouse at its tip still wore its coat of white paint, peeling in the same places. The boats knocked softly against the dock.\
\
Her mother stood at the corner of Rue de la Chapelle, smaller than Lena remembered. She wore a dark coat and held her handbag with both hands. Neither of them moved for a long moment.\
\
This was the homecoming Lena had rehearsed a hundred times on the bus\'97and now that it was here, she found she had forgotten all her lines. She crossed the square, and her mother opened her arms.}